Hello everybody and welcome back.
And welcome to protecting our pointers.
Now we've done a little bit of this as we've gone but now we're really going to formalize it and make
sure that any pointers that we have in our code are actually protected.
Now I've shown you before the crashes that can occur and of course the error messages you get from them
are usually not very helpful either.
So that leads nicely onto our first point here that horrible crashes when we follow a null pointer we
must always check pointers before using them as well.
That will be a good way of making sure that we don't have these issues and when declaring always initialize
a pointer to NULL pointer.
Now that may sound like a bit of a contradiction.
This will prevent it from having undefined behavior which could result in pretty much anything happening.
So how do we go ahead and find pointers anyway.
Well obviously as you use them would be the best time to protect them.
But we haven't been doing that in all circumstances.
So look for the asterisk or the star in your head of files to help find some pointers and also check
before every use and handle with the null pointer we've already shown you a couple of ways of doing
that as well.
And sometimes we may not choose to for example when we're going ahead and getting an owner which does
make sense because if you've got a component like the grabber component is not going to sit.
They're not attached to something.
So we don't need to protect when we go ahead and get owner and get to name for instance because the
component can't exist without an owner.
So let's go over into our code and have a closer look.
OK.
We'll start over in the grab a file because that's where we've been most of the time and we can see
as we go down.
We've got the two stars.
So one of the things that you could do here is go control an F and look for the asterisk or the star
depending on what you want to call it.
So we've got a function up here.
Now lets the tick component.
We're not going to touch that.
However we've got two more.
In this particular file with both of them as we've initialized it we've set it to null pointer.
So that's good.
Let's go over into our implementation of the grabber.
I'm going to have to open these up on time go through them again.
Okay.
And also is a good time as we're going through this.
If we spot anything else because I know I've spotted something here I want to fix it as well.
So if we go down an example I think the first example where we use pointers here input component get
the owner.
So we don't have to protect this one here because any component that is on an on an actor is going to
have an owner.
So that's absolutely fine.
However when we go ahead and find our physics handle this is where we do need to make sure we've got
a null point to protect ourselves.
Now you could set it up like this or you could as we've done over in the open door implementation.
Use this type of formatting as well so we could say if not pressure plates.
So over here we could change this and say if not physics handle.
That's a lot cleaner.
And that's exactly what I'm going to do here.
I'm just going to change that.
So if not physics handle then there's no component found that's absolutely fine.
And one of the best things we can do when we have this sort of issue where if something's not there
well perhaps we can log it out at the same time.
Let's go down a little further so we've got the you primitive component.
It is being initialized to something else at the moment so that's absolutely fine.
We don't have to assign it to no pointer if it's already being assigned to something else.
So if the hit result gets actor now the weird thing about this and why would this indentation here let
me sort that out.
I've spotted it when I've been editing videos and I don't know why didn't spot it as I was going through
I think it was just because it was so so almost in line with this my brain didn't recognize it.
So what.
Anyway okay.
So I'm not a great fan of this bit here.
This hit result gets actor it's gonna bring back an actor if we hover over it we can see exactly what
it is.
So it's kind of weird to get a result and not sign it to something.
That's the one thing that I don't like about this.
So what we're going to do is and to take that out and I'm going to replace it with actor hit.
So it's going to be nice and short.
So actor hits and what we can do is up here we can actually declare an a actor star because it's a pointer
we can call it actor hits.
And then we can initialize it with that value there.
And that reads Just a little bit better.
Now there's a question here because we're using the physics handle here and we're using a pointer to
that you primitive component.
So if there's not a physics handle there we may have ourselves an issue one way of getting around this
is to have another if statement so invested in this.
In this case but what if statement would do is it.
It would say that if not physics handle okay and on the same line we're just going to return here.
So we don't clutter up our code too much.
So it's not a physics handle it's going to return and what will happen then is when it gets to this
bit of code it'll just jump out of it it will exit this if statement is completely and it won't run
the code underneath.
And that's the sorts of formats you can do when you start using pointers to protect yourself.
Now apart from the whitespace issues that are there I'm happy with that.
We come down and again we can use this bits of code again if not a physics handle because we're using
the same here.
Now if for some reason you don't have a component and you're trying to release a component that could
cause a crash.
So this will help protect against that.
Now if we go down a little further we'll find some other examples.
So here we go here's another one with our tech component function and once again we can say if there's
not a physical handle return and that will take us out of the tick function completely onto the next
frame of it of course but that will protect us when we use the physics handle here.
And of course down here.
So where else do we use pointers down here.
OK.
So we've got another arrow operator here.
Now get a world now much like an owner.
There's always going to be a level that you're working in protecting.
This is not a particular issue.
If there's not a world them what what are we doing in the unreal Ed you're going to be staring at a
blank screen.
We just save it as we go further down.
And once again we've got to get world here and get what they're okay.
So I think that's everything within the grabber all protected.
Now I might have missed something.
It's very easy to do in a big block code.
I think I've managed to go through everything there and protect it.
And of course that leads us nicely on to your challenge.
I would like you to go forth and protect.
So go ahead check the open door header file and the open door implementation file log.
A helpful error if it's no that's always useful if you've got a particular issue and you get something
out in the log you're somewhat protected.
Test that it works.
Important initialize any other unfinished laser pointers.
Now I think there are a couple on open door especially if you've been following along with exactly what
I've typed now make sure that all point to users now do make sure that all points are usages are protected
where necessary supposedly now and give us a go Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go forth and protect okay.
So let's start over in the open door header file.
So the first instance of a pointer and do use the search function here because it's going to be easy
to miss things.
So let's go ahead and search for the asterisk.
And here we go.
We've got three in here.
The F Act's component tick function.
We're going to leave that one alone.
And then we've got two down at the bottom here.
Okay so we've got a pressure plate.
Let's assign let's initialize that with Noel Pointer and then we have the active open sir.
Hang on a minute PTA.
I will spell that correctly one day anyway.
So the actor that opens I'm pretty sure we're not using that anymore.
Let's go over into the implementation and have a look.
OK.
So I'm still searching at the top here.
So I'm going to remove that actor that opens.
OK so the actor that opens.
Do we use it anywhere.
Well let's find actor that opens.
There's only one instance of it.
So we don't use it anymore.
I believe we were using it here before we say if it is the actor that opens then we can use it.
So I think we can get rid of that completely.
That's going to tidy up our code let's go back here and remove that.
Perfect.
I missed that the first time round and this is one of the great things about going through your code
in this methodical manner even if you have to come back again.
You're always going to miss things on the first pass.
Let's go through the open door implementation and see what else we can find.
So there will be arrow operators which are a good indication that we're using pointers and there will
also be the asterisk stars.
So in this particular case I'm going to look for Arrow operators because that's often going to reveal
areas where we might miss.
So anything that's ghetto now or perhaps get world we can safely ignore if we're attaching a component
like open door to an actor is an actor component it has to have an owner.
It can't not have an owner and therefore a null point is never going to happen.
I'm sure there's some convoluted way you could set that up.
But in general it's never going to happen in just the same with get world get world is the level that
you're in.
So if you've got no level then nothing can exist.
So we really don't have to worry about get world returning a null pointer.
So that's all fine.
And then further down we've got a similar thing going on get owner gets owner again our case so here
the total mass of actors is probably the final place where we're going to have to have a look.
So we've got a pressure plate being used here.
So this is where we can say Yves not pressure plate again then we need to do something afterwards and
we're just going to return straightaway that will prevent that from running of course whitespace here
just makes it a little bit more readable and also consistent with our formatting.
So pressure plate.
I think that's that's protected there.
Okay.
And so one thing to bear in mind here is this is returning and it's returning nothing.
And this is supposed to be returning a float which is the total mass.
So I am at this point in time going to return the total mass anyway so it's just going to come back
out at zero.
Otherwise this function isn't returning anything.
When we return early if this is not right.
If there is no pressure plate set.
Now we could also add in a warning here if you want to buy think we're covered in that particular place.
Okay.
And this last one here on 82 again that's a pointer to an actor that's within the tea array itself.
So it's a tea array of pointers essentially.
So we're absolutely fine there because it won't make it through this far if there's any null pointers
involved.
Okay.
And if it's an actor is an actor so it will be available.
I think we're done.
How did you guys get on.
Did you manage to fix any errors like I did as I was going through my code methodically.
If you did please share what you had to fix over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next
lecture.